# Small Biz Management System

Efficient Rust implementation for small business owners in Africa. Manage inventory, sales, and expenses seamlessly, ensuring streamlined operations and informed decision-making. Boost your business efficiency with our tailored solutions.

## Technologies Used

- **Rust**: The programming language used for the backend implementation.
- **Candid**: Used for defining the canister interface.
- **Internet Computer (IC)**: Utilizes IC-specific libraries (`ic_cdk`) for interactions with the Internet Computer.

## Components

### Data Structures
- **Inventory**: Represents information about products, including details such as name, description, quantity, amount, and timestamps.
- **Sale**: Represents a sales transaction, including details like name, description, quantity, amount, associated store ID, and timestamps.
- **Expense**: Represents an expense entry, with fields for name, description, amount, and timestamp.

### Functionality
- **Inventory Management**: Create, update,retrieve and delete information about products in the inventory.
- **Sales Management**: Record sales transactions, update, retrieve and delete information about sales.
- **Expense Management**: Track and manage business expenses.
- **Financial Analysis**: Calculate the overall financial health by considering total sales, expenses, and inventory value.
- **Inventory Replenishment Recommendations**: Provide recommendations for inventory restocking by searching its quantity.

This system is tailored to the needs of small business owners, offering comprehensive management capabilities for efficient and informed decision-making.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with small_biz, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Rust Canister Development Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/rust/)
- [ic-cdk](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk)
- [ic-cdk-macros](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk-macros)
- [Candid Introduction](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/candid/)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd small_biz/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```
Feel free to interact with the backend cannister to utilize these CRUD functions 

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

## Feedback updates

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
